# Part 1 : Introduction

I've been searching for the perfect latex inflatable hips. There are a
three or four companies that make inflatable hips at various price
points, but all have some slight issues. Some don't have the right
shape. Some easily break due to too much pressure on the seams. Some
are super expensive.

So can we come up with a design that looks great, make it fairly
simple to pattern and construct, and then make the pattern available
for all?

I've been making catsuits for a while, loosely based on a pattern
generated by reading guides from
https://www.catastacharisma.com/working-with-latex.html

The pattern for the shorts is based on that catsuit pattern, removing
parts that are not needed. It does mean that to save time making a new
pattern you do end up needing a couple of measurements that are
probably not essential, like inside leg, but they all help get the
length right so I'm going to leave them in for now.

So if you fancy making one yourself or are just interested in my
process, follow along! Note that although it may seem much cheaper to
make one yourself, by the time you have invested in the sheeting,
tools, proper glue and thinner, and not forgetting your time, you'll
wonder how any of the latex clothing companies make any profits at
all!

Here's what I needed for making the hips:

* 0.5mm latex in Radical Rubber mannequin. I ended up using about 2.5m in length because I messed up a couple of panels and had to remake them. I chose
this colour because it is mostly invisible underneath a lycra skinsuit (hadatai), but transparent may also be okay. I chose 0.5mm to give just a little
extra structure than a default 0.4mm sheet.
* The proper glue and thinner and all the accessories you'd usually use to make later (see later)

And here's how long it took:

* Pattern printing, cutting it out: 1 hour
* Transferring to latex, cutting it out: 2 hours
* Latex assembly: 8 hours
* (Messing up two panels and having to remake them, 3 hours)
* Testing, leak testing: various

Now on to part 2, downloading and adjusting the pattern: https://github.com/kigyui/latexpatterns/blob/master/inflatablehips/02-pattern.md
